Hello Friends
In this video, let us discuss about the implementation of
Finding Nth Fibonacci using top-down approach with memoization.
So as we have discussed in the previous video, the
algorithm to implement the top down approach with memoization is,
First declaring an array to store the subproblem results.
Then initializing the the array to -1. Here -1
indicates that, the sub problem solution needs to be computed.
Now before making any recursive call check whether the sub
problem needs to be solved. That is if it is
already solved, we only need to take the result from there.
Only otherwise we need to compute it
So check if result[N] equal to -1,
if yes it needs to be solved. So compute it
and store it in result. Else if it is already
solved, just return the already computed result.
Let's see how it works.
We are going to find fib(4). So in
this call and N will be equal to four. Check if
result[4] equal to -1 and it is.
so we need to compute the result. Now check if
N is less than or equal to one and it
is not as N is equal to 4
So else part will be executed here
Fib(N) is equal to  Fib(N-1) + Fib(N-2)
So we have two recursive calls
And here the first recursive call fib(N-1)
that is fib(3) will be executed
first and the next recursive call fib(N-2)
will wait until the first recursive call
finishes its job.
So fib(3) will be called and here first we
will check if result[N] equal to minus -1 and it is.
So we need to compute the result
So check if N is less than or equal to 1
Since N equal to 3
It fails. So the else part will be executed
And here again we have two recursive calls
Fib(N-1) that is Fib(2)
and Fib(N-2) that is fib(1)
and the first recursive call
fib(2) will be executed first and the second
recursive call fib(1) will wait until fib(2) finishes
Its job.
So fib(2) is called and here also, first
we are checking if result[N] is equal to -1
and it is -1. So it means
it is not solved yet
And we need to compute the result.
So check if N is less than or equal to one and
since N equal to 2. It fails. So the else
part will be executed.
Here we have two recursive calls again
fib(N-1) and fib(N-2)
That is fib(1) and fib(0).
Here also, as we have discussed, the first recursive call
fib(1) will be executed first and the next recursive
call fib(0) will wait until fib(1)
gets completed. So fib(1) will be called.
And here also we are checking if it is solved
and we have result[1] is equal to -1
So we need to compute the result
So check if N is less than or equal to one and
it is. So set result[N] equal to N
So in the array, result[1] is set to 1.
Now whenever we have fib[1] called, we can
simply take the result from this array, and we do
not need to compute it. Now here we have returned
result[N] so 1 will be returned to calling
function Fib(2).
Now this recursive call is finished
It has done its job
So now the second call fib(0) will be
executed here
Here also first we are checking if it is solved
and we have result[0] equal to -1
So we need to compute the result
So check if N is less than or equal to one.
And it is. So set result[N] is equal
to N. So in the array, result[0] is
set to zero. And here we have return result[N]
So zero will be returned to the calling function Fib(2)
Now this recursive call is finished and here we have
result[2] = fib(1) + fib(0)
that is 1+0 which is equal to 1
So result[2] is computed and we got one
and it is stored in the array. Now we have return
Result[N]. So one is returned to the calling
function fib(3). Here the first recursive call is
finished now the second one will be called. That is fib(1)
So it is called and here first we check if
result[N] is equal to -1
But it is not, which means this sub problem is
already solved.
So we can just visit the array and take the
result from there and return it. So this if block
will not be executed and the next statement
return result[N] will be executed
So one is returned to the calling function fib(3)
and this call is completed now.
So here in fib(3) we have result[3]
computed which is 1+1 which is equal
to 2 and it is stored in the array
And finally we have return result[N]
So result[3] that is two is returned to
the calling function fib(4). And here first recursive
call fib(3) is completed
Now the second call fib(N-2) that
is fib(2) is called. Here first we check if
result[N] is -1
But it is not, which means this sub problem is
already solved. So we can just visit the array and the
already solved
Result will be returned
This will save a lot of time and space in
computing the result.
If we had to compute it again, we have to
check if N is lesser than or equal to one
And if it's not, there will be two recursive calls
and it will take a lot of time and space.
So this is how memoization makes the programme efficient
So here this if block will not be executed and
the next statement return result[N] will be executed
and 1 will be returned to the calling function fib(4)
And this call is also completed now and in
fib(4), we have result[4] equal do
fib(3) that is 2 +fib(2) that is 1
which is equal to 3 and finally
result[4] is returned to the calling function.
Thus we have got the result fib(4) equal to 3
And this is how in top down approach memoization helps
us, avoid the re-computation issue and saves a lot of time and space.